[WIP]Agent 84: prepares the agent deployed cluster for mce (#53967)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/preparing-an-inital-cluster-deployment-for-mce-disconnected.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing_with_agent_based_installer/preparing-an-agent-based-installed-cluster-for-mce.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="preparing-an-inital-cluster-deployment-for-mce-disconnected_{context}"]

> = Preparing an initial cluster deployment for multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator while disconnected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Preparing to install multicluster engine for Kubernetes (MCE) Operator while disconnected
```
Is there a way you can shorten this heading? Just a suggestion, but it seems a bit long to me.

Author: Yes I agree its long but I could not find any words I would like to remove

> You can mirror the required {product-title} container images, the multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator, and Local Storage Operator (LSO) into your local mirror registry in a disconnected environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can mirror the required {product-title} container images, the multicluster engine for Kubernetes (MCE) Operator, and Local Storage Operator (LSO) into your local mirror registry in a disconnected environment.
```
added a space before acronym

> Ensure that you note the local DNS and port of your mirror registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you note the local DNS hostname and port of your mirror registry.
```
accuracy suggestion

[NOTE]
====
To mirror your {product-title} image repository to your mirror registry, you can use either the `oc adm release image`
or `oc mirror` command. In this procedure, the `oc mirror` command is used as an example.
====

.Procedure

> . Create a `<assets_directory>` folder to place valid `install-config.yaml` and `agent-config.yaml` files. This directory is used to store all the assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an `<assets_directory>` folder to contain valid `install-config.yaml` and `agent-config.yaml` files. This directory is used to store all the assets.
```
a -> an, and rewording suggestion for place -> contain/store

> . To mirror the specific {product-title} image repository, the MCE Operator and Local Storage Operator(LSO), create a `ImageSetConfiguration.yaml` file with the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To mirror a {product-title} image repository, the MCE Operator, and Local Storage Operator(LSO), create a `ImageSetConfiguration.yaml` file with the following settings:
```
Small suggestions

+
.Example `ImageSetConfiguration.yaml`

[source,yaml]
----
  kind: ImageSetConfiguration
  apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
  archiveSize: 4 <1>
  storageConfig: <2>
    imageURL: <your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/mirror/oc-mirror-metadata <3>
    skipTLS: true
  mirror:
    platform:
      architectures:
        - "amd64"
      channels:
        - name: stable-4.12 <4>
          type: ocp
    additionalImages:
      - name: registry.redhat.io/ubi8/ubi:latest
    operators:
      - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.12 <5>
        packages: <6>
          - name: multicluster-engine <7>
          - name: local-storage-operator <8>
----

+

> NOTE: This file is required by the `oc mirror` command when mirroring content.

Reviewer: Should this line be in a [NOTE] block? It might fit better on line 64 so that it doesn't go between the code block and the annotations. Just a suggestion.

Author: Sounds good , implemented

+

> <1> Add `archiveSize` to set the maximum size, in GiB, of each file within the image set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Set the maximum size, in GiB, of each file within the image set.
```
minimalism and consistency with the rest of the annotations

> <2> Set the back-end location to save the image set metadata to. This location can be a registry or local directory. It is required to specify `storageConfig` values, unless you are using the Technology Preview OCI feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Set the back-end location to receive the image set metadata. This location can be a registry or local directory. It is required to specify `storageConfig` values, unless you are using the Technology Preview OCI feature.
```
Grammar suggestion to avoid ending sentence with preposition

<3> Set the registry URL for the storage backend.

> <4> Set the channel to retrieve the {product-title} images from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Set the channel that contains the {product-title} images for the version you are installing.
```
Rewording suggestion to avoid ending sentence with preposition

> <5> Set the Operator catalog to retrieve the {product-title} images from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Set the Operator catalog that contains the {product-title} images you are installing.
```
Rewording suggestion to avoid ending sentence with preposition

+
.Example `imageContentSources.yaml`

[source,yaml]
----
  imageContentSources:
    - source: "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/openshift/release-images"
    - source: "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/openshift/release"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/ubi8"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/ubi8"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/multicluster-engine"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/multicluster-engine"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/rhel8"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/rhel8"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/redhat"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/redhat"
----

+
Additionally, ensure your certificate is present in the `additionalTrustBundle` field of the `install-config.yaml`.

+
.Example `install-config.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
additionalTrustBundle: |

>   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
>   . zzzzzzzzzzz
>   .  -----END CERTIFICATE-----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  zzzzzzzzzzz
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
```
I think these periods should not be in the sample certificate unless they were put there for a specific reason.

Author: correct , good catch

----

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `oc mirror` command  creates a folder called **oc-mirror-workspace** with several outputs.

> This includes the `imageContentSourcePolicy.yaml` file that identifies all the mirrors you need for {product-title}  and your selected Operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This includes the `imageContentSourcePolicy.yaml` file that identifies all the mirrors you need for {product-title} and your selected Operators.
```
Removed extra space

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing_with_agent_based_installer/preparing-an-agent-based-installed-cluster-for-mce.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="preparing-an-inital-cluster-deployment-for-mce-disconnected_{context}"]

= Preparing an initial cluster deployment for multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator while disconnected

You can mirror the required {product-title} container images, the multicluster engine for Kubernetes(MCE) Operator, and Local Storage Operator (LSO) into your local mirror registry in a disconnected environment.
Ensure that you note the local DNS and port of your mirror registry.

[NOTE]
====
To mirror your {product-title} image repository to your mirror registry, you can use either the `oc adm release image`
or `oc mirror` command. In this procedure, the `oc mirror` command is used as an example.
====

.Procedure

> . Create a `<assets_directory>` folder to place a valid `install-config.yaml` and `agent-config.yaml` file. This directory is useed to store all the assets.

Author: @andfasano  here we define the assets directory to store both the yaml files. Will that suffice?

. To mirror the specific {product-title} image repository, the MCE Operator and Local Storage Operator(LSO), create a `ImageSetConfiguration.yaml` file with the following settings:

+
.Example `ImageSetConfiguration.yaml`

[source,yaml]
----
  kind: ImageSetConfiguration
  apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
  archiveSize: 4 <1>
  storageConfig: <2>
    imageURL: <your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/mirror/oc-mirror-metadata <3>
    skipTLS: true
  mirror:
    platform:
      architectures:
        - "amd64"
      channels:

>         - name: stable-4.11 <4>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - name: stable-4.12 <4>
```

          type: ocp
    additionalImages:
      - name: registry.redhat.io/ubi8/ubi:latest
    operators:

>       - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.11 <5>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.12 <5>
```

or `oc mirror` command. In this procedure, the `oc mirror` command is used as an example.
====

.Procedure

. Create an `<assets_directory>` folder to contain valid `install-config.yaml` and `agent-config.yaml` files. This directory is used to store all the assets.

. To mirror a {product-title} image repository, the MCE Operator, and Local Storage Operator(LSO), create a `ImageSetConfiguration.yaml` file with the following settings:

+
.Example `ImageSetConfiguration.yaml`

[source,yaml]
----
  kind: ImageSetConfiguration
  apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
  archiveSize: 4 <1>
  storageConfig: <2>
    imageURL: <your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/mirror/oc-mirror-metadata <3>
    skipTLS: true
  mirror:
    platform:
      architectures:
        - "amd64"
      channels:
        - name: stable-4.12 <4>
          type: ocp
    additionalImages:
      - name: registry.redhat.io/ubi8/ubi:latest
    operators:
      - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.12 <5>
        packages: <6>
          - name: multicluster-engine <7>
          - name: local-storage-operator <8>
----
+

> <1> Set the maximum size, in GiB, of each file within the image set.

Reviewer 3: Our docs usually say "Specify" for these types of items, should probably make this list consistent.
```suggestion
<1> Specify the maximum size, in GiB, of each file within the image set.
```

> <2> Set the back-end location to receive the image set metadata. This location can be a registry or local directory. It is required to specify `storageConfig` values, unless you are using the Technology Preview OCI feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> Set the back-end location to receive the image set metadata. This location can be a registry or local directory. You must specify `storageConfig` values unless you are using the Technology Preview OCI feature.
```

<3> Set the registry URL for the storage backend.
<4> Set the channel that contains the {product-title} images for the version you are installing.
<5> Set the Operator catalog that contains the {product-title} images that you are installing.
<6> Specify only certain Operator packages and channels to include in the image set. Remove this field to retrieve all packages in the catalog.
<7> The MCE Operator packages and channels.

> <8> The LSO Operator packages and channels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<8> The LSO packages and channels.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Everywhere in here where there is a blank line before a line with a `+`, the blank line should be deleted (there are a few instances).
```suggestion
```

Author: Addressed in both mce modules

+
[NOTE]
====
This file is required by the `oc mirror` command when mirroring content.
====

> . To mirror a specific {product-title} image repository, the MCE Operator, and Local Storage Operator(LSO), run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. To mirror a specific {product-title} image repository, the MCE Operator, and the LSO, run the following command:
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc mirror --dest-skip-tls --config ocp-mce-imageset.yaml docker://<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc mirror --dest-skip-tls --config ocp-mce-imageset.yaml docker://<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>
```

Author: good catch

----

. Update the registry and certificate in the `install-config.yaml` file:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+
.Example `imageContentSources.yaml`

[source,yaml]
----
  imageContentSources:
    - source: "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/openshift/release-images"
    - source: "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/openshift/release"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/ubi8"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/ubi8"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/multicluster-engine"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/multicluster-engine"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/rhel8"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/rhel8"
    - source: "registry.redhat.io/redhat"
      mirrors:
        - "<your-local-registry-dns-name>:<your-local-registry-port>/redhat"
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+
Additionally, ensure your certificate is present in the `additionalTrustBundle` field of the `install-config.yaml`.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+
.Example `install-config.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
additionalTrustBundle: |
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  zzzzzzzzzzz
  -----END CERTIFICATE-------
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> The `oc mirror` command  creates a folder called **oc-mirror-workspace** with several outputs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `oc mirror` command  creates a folder called `oc-mirror-workspace` with several outputs.
```

This includes the `imageContentSourcePolicy.yaml` file that identifies all the mirrors you need for {product-title} and your selected Operators.
====

. Generate the cluster manifests by running the following command:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openshift-install agent create cluster-manifests
----

> This command updates the `cluster manifests` folder to include a `mirror` folder that contains your mirror configuration.

Reviewer 3: Just checking because it's a bit uncommon for a directory to have a space in it: is the directory called `cluster manifests`? Or could this be a generic reference, e.g.:
```suggestion
This command updates the cluster manifests folder to include a `mirror` folder that contains your mirror configuration.
```

> This command updates the `cluster manifests` folder to include a `mirror` folder that contains your mirror configuration.

Reviewer 3: Should probably have a `+` to connect this to the block IIUC
```suggestion
+
This command updates the `cluster manifests` folder to include a `mirror` folder that contains your mirror configuration.
```
